---
id: about
templateKey: about
title: Who?
description:
  Mark Murray is an Irish Software Engineer & Photographer living in Dublin,
  Ireland with a passion for Art, Design, Music and Technology.
image_url: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/project-4767000521921178323.appspot.com/o/images%2Fmark.jpg?alt=media&token=94362653-9e33-4c10-8dd2-9299098d4b5e
---

Irish Software Engineer living in Dublin, Ireland with a passion for Art,
Design, Music and Technology. Since my return from startup life in San Francisco
in 2017, I've been working predominantly as a Full Stack Engineer for Zalando,
trying to improve the lives of 38+ million people across Europe - helping them
to express themselves through their fashion choices.

I'm passionate about building tactile experiences and solving problems that
matter. This is why I've been particularly drawn to UX and front-end development
throughout my career. I'm also fascinated by the organisational structure of
teams and how tweaking these structures can result in high performance and
delivery. I value impactful, purpose-driven work where I can make a real
difference to peoples lives and I like to work on teams with a positive mindset,
made up of a diverse mix of people from different backgrounds.

When I'm not working on client-facing features/sites, I thoroughly enjoy working
across the full stack and thankfully in my current role I have the opportunity
to explore the different areas. I enjoy working on a team given the
responsibility of delivering end-to-end - caring about the nitty gritty details
of the user experience as well as the deployment and monitoring of our services.

I care about sustainability - building a future that tackles climate change, the
effects of global agriculture, and the housing/homeless crises in Ireland.
Eventually I would like to work with a company who is developing solutions to
these issues at a global scale.

When I'm not working, you'll generally find me playing some sort of instrument,
making electronic music, running, cycling, taking photos or simply discovering
new parts of a city.

Graduated from Maynooth University, Ireland in 2014 with a 1.1 in B.Sc
Multimedia and an award for the overall highest results.
