---
templateKey: blog-post
title: <strong>Iterative Shipping</strong> vs Desired State
description:
  Why solving buyer frustrations through iterative shipping often beats waiting
  for perfect solutions.
date: 2024-12-18T00:00:00.000Z
pinned: true
tags:
  - Product
  - Engineering
  - Commerce
---

## Balancing Desired State and Iterative Shipping

In software engineering, we constantly face the tension between shipping a
product that represents the desired state and releasing iterative updates. Both
approaches have their merits, but focusing on solving buyer frustrations, I
believe an iterative approach is often the most effective route to long-term
success. Let’s explore why, while also considering the counterpoints that may
make a desired-state approach appealing.

## Solving Buyer Frustrations First

At its core, our mission as software engineers is to deliver value to our users.
Buyers often face immediate frustrations: an unintuitive interface, slow
response times, or confusing user experiences which occur in fringe but common
scenarios. Addressing these pain points incrementally ensures users are never
blocked, reinforcing their confidence in the product and our responsiveness.

An iterative approach also allows for continuous feedback. By shipping smaller
updates that tackle specific frustrations, we create a feedback loop that helps
us validate our solutions in real-world conditions. This process minimizes the
risk of investing months—or even years—in developing “perfect” solutions which
fail to meet actual user needs when finally materialised.

## The Pitfalls of Shipping Desired State

While the allure of delivering a fully formed, desired-state product is strong,
the risks are significant. First, defining what constitutes a "desired state" is
inherently speculative. Even the most carefully conducted research and design
workshops cannot fully account for how users will react once a product is live.

Aiming to deliver a polished, feature-complete solution often leads to longer
development cycles, during which buyer frustrations persist unaddressed. In
fast-moving markets, this can result in losing users to competitors who are
quicker to resolve these pain points. Worse still, a prolonged development
timeline can amplify the gap between evolving user needs and the state of the
shipped product.

## Advantages of Iterative Development

Iterative shipping enables us to adapt to changing circumstances. Buyer
frustrations evolve as markets shift, competitors innovate, and customer
priorities change. Regular updates allow us to keep pace, aligning the product
closer to user needs over time.

From an engineering perspective, breaking work into smaller, incremental pieces
reduces complexity. Smaller changes are easier to test, review, and deploy,
minimizing the risk of introducing critical bugs. Furthermore, a modular,
iterative approach enables the team to pivot more effectively if initial
assumptions prove incorrect.

## Challenges and Considerations of Iterative Shipping

Critics of iterative shipping often cite concerns about user experience
fragmentation. Incremental updates may lead to inconsistencies or half-baked
features that confuse users. While this is a valid concern, it can be mitigated
through strong design principles, clear communication of updates, and
prioritization of features that deliver immediate value without undermining the
product’s coherence.

Another argument against iterative shipping is that it can create technical
debt. Rapid updates might prioritize speed over maintainability, leading to
long-term challenges. However, this risk can be managed with disciplined
engineering practices—including robust code reviews, automated testing, and
continuous refactoring—that ensure quality is not sacrificed for velocity.

Frequent updates can also overwhelm users. A barrage of small, incremental
changes may require users to repeatedly adapt, leading to frustration rather
than satisfaction. This can be addressed by bundling related updates into
cohesive releases, providing users with a more seamless experience while
maintaining the benefits of iteration.

## When Desired State Shipping is Necessary

Some scenarios demand a more comprehensive desired-state approach.
Safety-critical software, enterprise-level solutions, or products governed by
stringent regulatory requirements may need to launch in a near-complete state
due to the high cost of failure. In such cases, the desired state serves as a
foundation for reliability and compliance that iterative updates might not
immediately deliver.

Additionally, in markets where competitors release polished, feature-rich
products, an iterative approach may give the impression of incompleteness. To
counter this, iterative development should be paired with clear communication
and visible progress toward the desired state, ensuring users and stakeholders
understand the long-term vision.

## Striking the Right Balance

The ideal approach often lies somewhere in the middle. A desired state can serve
as a guiding north star, providing clarity and direction for the team. However,
breaking that vision into iterative milestones—each focused on solving a
specific buyer frustration—ensures progress without stagnation.

By adopting an iterative mindset, we not only demonstrate empathy for our users
but also create a sustainable development process that allows us to learn,
adapt, and improve over time. The desired state is not a static endpoint but an
evolving target that reflects the ever-changing needs of our users.

In the end, our success is measured not by how perfectly we execute our initial
vision but by how effectively we solve the real-world problems of our buyers. By
prioritizing iterative shipping, we make progress visible, actionable, and
impactful—one step at a time.
